[Doc] Graph Construction PR Refactor - PR2: GPartition Doc (#918)
awslabs/graphstorm: docs/source/graph-construction/gs-processing/gpartition/ec2-clusters.rst

======================================
Running partition jobs on EC2 Clusters
======================================

> Once the :ref:`distributed processing setup<gsprocessing_distributed_setup>` is complete,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the :ref:`distributed processing setup<gsprocessing_distributed_setup>` is completed,
```

> you can start the partition jobs. In summary this doc will provide instructions on how to setup the EC2 cluster and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users can start the partition jobs. This doc will provide instructions on how to setup an EC2 cluster and
```

> start GPartition jobs on EC2 cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
start GSPartition jobs on EC2 cluster.
```

> Create a GraphStorm Cluster

Author: We did not refer to our current guidance about creating a graphstorm cluster, because we may move them to somewhere else or even remove them. For now we keep it here directly in the tutorial, but that should be a to-do once we decide where to put this part.

----------------------------

> Setup the instance of a cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setup instances of a cluster
```

> .......................................

Reviewer 2: Align header indicators with title length

A cluster contains several instances each of which can run GraphStorm Docker container.

> To create such a cluster, in one instance, please follow the :ref:`Environment Setup <setup_docker>` description to setup GraphStorm Docker container environment, and use a Docker management system, e.g., AWS ECR, to upload the Docker image built in the instance to a Docker repository and pull it to the rest of the instances in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create such a cluster please follow the :ref:`Environment Setup <setup_docker>`. The guide shows you how to build GraphStorm Docker images, and use a Docker container registry, e.g. AWS ECR, to upload the GraphStorm image to an ECR repository and pull it on the instances in the cluster.
```

> If there is no such Docker manangement system available in your environment, in **each** instance of the cluster, follow the :ref:`Environment Setup <setup_docker>` description to build a GraphStorm Docker image, and start the image as a container. Then exchange the ssh key from inside of one GraphStorm Docker containers to the rest containers in the cluster, i.e., copy the keys from the ``/root/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`` from one container to ``/root/.ssh/authorized_keys`` in containers on all other containers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you can't access a Docker registry from your environment, in **each** instance of the cluster, follow the :ref:`Environment Setup <setup_docker>` description to build a GraphStorm Docker image, and start the image as a container. Then exchange the ssh key from inside of one GraphStorm Docker containers to the rest containers in the cluster, i.e., copy the keys from the ``/root/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`` from one container to ``/root/.ssh/authorized_keys`` in containers on all other containers.
```

.. note::

>     If you are planning to use **parmetis** algorithm, please prepare your docker container by instructions here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you are planning to use **parmetis** algorithm, please prepare your docker container using instructions here:
```

    .. code-block:: bash

        git clone https://github.com/awslabs/graphstorm.git

        cd /path-to-graphstorm/docker/

        bash /path-to-graphstorm/docker/build_docker_parmetis.sh /path-to-graphstorm/ image-name image-tag

>     There are four positional arguments for ``build_docker_parmetis.sh``:

Reviewer: four? There are three arguments listed below

    1. **path-to-graphstorm** (**required**), is the absolute path of the "graphstorm" folder, where you cloned the GraphStorm source code. For example, the path could be ``/code/graphstorm``.
    2. **image-name** (optional), is the assigned name of the to be built Docker image. Default is ``graphstorm``.
    3. **image-tag** (optional), is the assigned tag prefix of the Docker image. Default is ``local``.

>     The other stuff should remain the same.

Reviewer: What are the "the other stuff"? If no other stuff, may remove this sentence.

Author: I mean the "file system & instances setup" should remain the same.

Author: I delete the sentence finally, I find it useless.

Setup of a shared file system for the cluster
...............................................
A cluster requires a shared file system, such as NFS or EFS, mounted to each instance in the cluster, in which all GraphStorm containers in the cluster can share data files, and save model artifacts and prediction results.

> `Here <https://github.com/dmlc/dgl/tree/master/examples/pytorch/graphsage/dist#step-0-setup-a-distributed-file-system>`_ is the instruction of setting up NFS for a cluster provided by DGL. As the steps of setup of an NFS could be various for different systems, we suggest users to look for additional information about NFS setting. Here are some available resources: `NFS tutorial <https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-an-nfs-mount-on-ubuntu-22-04>`_ by DigitalOcean, `NFS document <https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/service-nfs>`_ for Ubuntu, `NFS guide <https://www.linode.com/docs/guides/using-an-nfs-server-on-ubuntu2004/>`_ by Linode, `NFS tutorial <https://www.tecmint.com/how-to-setup-nfs-server-in-linux/>`_ at Tecmint, and `NFS guide <https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-nfs-server-and-client-on-ubuntu-22-04/>`_ by HowtoForge.

Reviewer 2: Let's try to split up very long lines, they make make reviewing diffs difficult

```suggestion
`Here <https://github.com/dmlc/dgl/tree/master/examples/pytorch/graphsage/dist#step-0-setup-a-distributed-file-system>`_ is the instruction of setting up NFS for a cluster provided by DGL. 
As the steps of setup of an NFS could be various for different systems, we suggest users to look for additional information about NFS setting. Here are some available resources: `NFS tutorial <https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-an-nfs-mount-on-ubuntu-22-04>`_ by DigitalOcean, 
`NFS document <https://ubuntu.com/server/docs/service-nfs>`_ for Ubuntu, `NFS guide <https://www.linode.com/docs/guides/using-an-nfs-server-on-ubuntu2004/>`_ by Linode, 
`NFS tutorial <https://www.tecmint.com/how-to-setup-nfs-server-in-linux/>`_ at Tecmint, 
and `NFS guide <https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-nfs-server-and-client-on-ubuntu-22-04/>`_ by HowtoForge.
```

Reviewer 2: Also I'm not too comfortable linking to websites not under our control, I might keep the DO and Ubuntu guide, but let's remove the other two.

Author: I remove the last three, I agree we should keep at least as possible.

After setting up a shared file system, we can keep all partitioned graph data in the shared folder. Then mount the data folder to the ``/path_to_data/`` of each instances in the cluster so that all GraphStorm containers in the cluster can access these partitioned graph data easily.

Create GraphStorm container by mounting the NFS folder
.......................................................
In each instance, use the following command to start a GraphStorm Docker container and run it as a backend daemon on cpu.

.. code-block:: shell

    docker run -v /path_to_data/:/data \
                      -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm \
                      --network=host \
                      -d --name test graphstorm:local-cpu service ssh restart

> This command mount the shared ``/path_to_data/`` folder to each container's ``/data/`` folder by which GraphStorm codes can access graph data and save training and inference outcomes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command mounts the shared ``/path_to_data/`` folder to each container's ``/data/`` folder by which GraphStorm codes can access graph data and save training and inference outcomes.
```

Setup the IP address file and check port status
----------------------------------------------------------

Collect the IP list
......................

> The GraphStorm Docker containers use SSH on port ``2222`` to communicate with each other. Users need to collect all IP addresses of the three instances and put them into a text file, e.g., ``/data/ip_list.txt``, which is like:

Reviewer 2: Did we mention three instances somewhere else in the tutorial?

Author: Nope. It is a type from the previous tutorial. Remove it.

.. figure:: ../../../../../tutorial/distributed_ips.png
    :align: center

.. note:: If possible, use **private IP addresses**, insteand of public IP addresses. Public IP addresses may have additional port constraints, which cause communication issues.

Put this file into container's ``/data/`` folder.

Check port
................

> The GraphStorm Docker container uses port ``2222`` to **ssh** to containers running on other machines without passwords. Please make sure all host instances do not use this port.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The GraphStorm Docker container uses port ``2222`` to **ssh** to containers running on other machines without password. Please make sure the port is not used by other processes.
```

> Users also need to make sure the port ``2222`` is open for **ssh** commands.

Reviewer 3: Are you talking about firewall?

Pick one instance and run the following command to connect to the GraphStorm Docker container.

.. code-block:: bash

    docker container exec -it test /bin/bash

In the container environment, users can check the connectivity with the command ``ssh <ip-in-the-cluster> -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no -p 2222``. Please replace the ``<ip-in-the-cluster>`` with the real IP address from the ``ip_list.txt`` file above, e.g.,

.. code-block:: bash

    ssh 172.38.12.143 -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no -p 2222

> If succeeds, you should login to the container in the ``<ip-in-the-cluster>`` instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If successful, you should login to the container in the ``<ip-in-the-cluster>`` instance.
```

If not, please make sure there is no restriction of exposing port 2222.

For distributed training, users also need to make sure ports under 65536 is open for DistDGL to use.

> Launch GPartition Job

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Launch GSPartition Job
```

> For distributed training, users also need to make sure ports under 65536 is open for DistDGL to use.

Reviewer 2: Why this port in particular? PyTorch Distributed uses random ports for connections right? One port is actually not enough, it's actually hard to limit the range.

Reviewer: We can remove this sentence in this GSPartition tutorial.

----------------------

> Now we can ssh into the **leader node** of the EC2 cluster, and start GPartition process with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can ssh into the **leader node** of the EC2 cluster, and start GSPartition process with the following command:
```

> Now we can ssh into the **leader node** of the EC2 cluster, and start GPartition process with the following command:

Reviewer 3: Why not use the **leader node** in the previous examples?

Author: The previous example is only only set up for one instance. The only instance there should be the leader node.

.. code:: bash

    python3 -m graphstorm.gpartition.dist_partition_graph
        --input-path ${LOCAL_INPUT_DATAPATH} \
        --metadata-filename ${METADATA_FILE} \
        --output-path ${LOCAL_OUTPUT_DATAPATH} \
        --num-parts ${NUM_PARTITIONS} \
        --partition-algorithm ${ALGORITHM} \
        --ip-config ${IP_CONFIG} \

>         --do-dispatch

Reviewer 3: Shall we make --do-dispatch True default?

.. warning::
    1. Please make sure the both ``LOCAL_INPUT_DATAPATH`` and ``LOCAL_OUTPUT_DATAPATH`` are located on the shared filesystem.
    2. The num of instances in the cluster should be a multiple of ``NUM_PARTITIONS`` here.

> Currently we support both ``random`` and ``parmetis`` as the partitioning algorithm for ec2 clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently we support both ``random`` and ``parmetis`` as the partitioning algorithm for EC2 clusters.
```
